# BlackJack-Probabilty
Author: Adrian Resendez
This Blackjack program functions as any other traditional blackjack game with some options taken out from the player such as splitting etc. for simplicity sake.
2 cards are dealt to the dealer, one face-down and the other face-up, whilst the player gets 2 face-up cards dealt to him. If the player's first 2 cards dont add up to at least 10 he will be automatically dealt an extra card since there is no way for him to bust (bust is when player sum is > 21). Once the player's sum is 10 or greater, he will be told what card value would add up to make a Blackjack as well as the probability to get said value'd card. One probability taking in only the face-up cards the player can see and one probabliity in which we assume the dealer's face-down card is said favorable card. (BlackJack is when player sum = 21) The player is given a chance to "Hit" or "Stay" ('h' for hit option and 's' for stay option.) as long as his sum is less than 21 ( if 21 = Blackjack. In which case he automatically wins.) If the player chooses to stay the dealer reveals his face-down card and deals himself cards until either his sum is 17 or more. He must keep dealing himself cards until his sum is greater than that of the players or equal to 21 in which both cases the dealer wins. But if his sum comes out to more than 21 He busts and the player wins regardless of his sum. Had the player chose to hit, he is dealt cards until he chooses to stay once again, his sum equals 21 in which case he wins, or lastly his sum is greater than 21 in which case he busts and loses. The aforementioned probabilities and favorable card values are updated for each new card dealt and shown on the screen.
